docs: improve charm naming docs, with links to detailed guidance (#2748)
canonical/charmcraft: docs/howto/manage-charms.rst

Initialise a charm
------------------

Before you initialise a charm project, decide what to call your charm.

A charm's name is typically based on the name of the charm's workload. Use a different
naming convention if your charm doesn't operate a workload. For detailed guidance, see
:external+ops:ref:`Ops | How to initialise your project <init-charm>`. The Ops guidance
also explains how to name your charm's Git repository.

To initialise a charm project, enter your working directory (likely your charm's

> repository), then run ``charmcraft init`` with the ``--profile`` flag followed by a

Reviewer: I'm not confident that "working dir" is clear. Would it be simpler to state that the user needs to go where the project file lives, which is often but not always the project source?

suitable profile name: For a machine charm, ``machine``. For a Kubernetes charm,

> ``kubernetes`` or a 12-factor app profile such as ``flask-framework``. This will create

Reviewer: > or a 12-factor app profile

I understand there's a relation between k8s and the Flask/Django charms, but I think this might be confusing. A generic k8s user won't necessarily be thinking of Flask. Could we instead split 12-factor apps into a separate clause?

Also, should we discuss k8s being the default here, so there's less of a surprise later in the doc?

all the necessary files and even prepopulate them with useful content.

.. code-block:: bash

    charmcraft init --name <charm name> --profile <profile>

> It's important to specify ``--name`` if the directory name and charm name are different.

Reviewer: Thinking of how-tos as guides, as in, someone steering you toward a goal while anticipating your thoughts and actions, and preparing you for traps, maybe we could make this even better. Here's some food for thought for another way to phrase this:

```suggestion
If the charm name you want is different from the current directory name, don't skip the ``--name`` argument, or else the charm will fall back to the directory name.
```

.. dropdown:: Example session

    .. terminal::
        :dir: ~/my-flask-app-k8s-operator

        charmcraft init --name my-flask-app-k8s --profile flask-framework

        Charmed operator package file and directory tree initialised.

        Now edit the following package files to provide fundamental charm metadata
        and other information:

        charmcraft.yaml
        src/charm.py
        README.md

    .. terminal::
        :dir: ~/my-flask-app-k8s-operator

        ls -R

        .:
        charmcraft.yaml  pyproject.toml  src  tox.ini

        ./src:
        charm.py

> The command also allows you to not specify any profile. In that case you get the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also initialise without passing a profile. In that case the charm defaults to the
```

Allows one not to do something? :thinking:

Initialise a charm
------------------

> .. admonition:: Best practice

Reviewer 2: This best practice block I would be happy to see gone, because it's annoying to have near-duplicate ones in ops and here.

A charm's name is typically based on the name of the charm's workload. If you're setting

> up a Git repository, name the repository ``<charm name>-operator``. Use a different

Reviewer 2: I think this repo bit is too strong, because there are common cases when it's the wrong name. Probably we should just point to ops where it's explained rather than try to put in a super short version here. Charmcraft shouldn't really care what the repo is called.

naming convention if your charm doesn't operate a workload. For detailed guidance, see
:external+ops:ref:`Ops | How to initialise your project <init-charm>`.

> To initialise a charm project, create a repository or directory for your charm, enter it,

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should say "repository or directory" because typically you have a directory that *is* a repository. They aren't either/or choices.

Author: I've made some adjustments based on this and the above comment. How do the first few paragraphs under [Initialise a charm](https://canonical-charmcraft--2748.com.readthedocs.build/2748/howto/manage-charms/#initialise-a-charm) look now?

Reviewer 2: Looks fine. I would personally say "likely a clone of your charm’s repository" rather than "likely your charm’s repository", but maybe what you have is more understandable to most people.

Author: I don't have a strong feeling either way. I'll leave this thread open in case other reviewers have an opinion.

> your charm's repository), then run ``charmcraft init``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in your charm's repository), then run ``charmcraft init``:
```

name: For a machine charm, ``machine``. For a Kubernetes charm, ``kubernetes`` or a
12-factor app profile such as ``flask-framework``. This will create all the necessary
files and even prepopulate them with useful content.

.. code-block:: bash

    charmcraft init --name <charm name> --profile <profile>

It's important to specify ``--name`` if the name of the repository or directory ends

> with ``-operator``. Otherwise, your charm's name will end with ``-operator`` too.

Reviewer 2: Maybe here better framed something like "if the name of the directory is not the name of the charm"? There are other cases where the default will be wrong.

.. dropdown:: Example session

    .. terminal::
        :dir: ~/my-flask-app-k8s-operator

        charmcraft init --name my-flask-app-k8s --profile flask-framework

        Charmed operator package file and directory tree initialised.

        Now edit the following package files to provide fundamental charm metadata
        and other information:

        charmcraft.yaml
        src/charm.py
        README.md

    .. terminal::
        :dir: ~/my-flask-app-k8s-operator

        ls -R

        .:

>         charmcraft.yaml  pyproject.toml  requirements.txt  src  tox.ini

Reviewer 2: If we're updating this then I think we would remove requirements.txt.

Author: Agree. Now that https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2722 has merged, which updates the `flask-framework` profile to put deps in `pyproject.toml`.
